# Rationale
Lorazepam has been associated with worse outcomes in cancer patients due to its activation of the GPR68 receptor, which may worsen inflammation and respiratory distress—conditions that are especially critical in COVID-19.
Alprazolam, conversely, does not activate this receptor and may even have anti-inflammatory properties. By differentiating between these drugs, the study provides a nuanced understanding of whether certain benzodiazepines are safer or more harmful in this context, which is essential for evaluating their impact on mortality and disease progression.
Recent findings indicate that lorazepam users have a 3.83-fold higher risk of death compared to alprazolam users among cancer patients, with or without COVID infection. This increased risk has been attributed to lorazepam's activation of the receptor gene, GPR68, a mechanism not observed with alprazolam. Additionally, recent preclinical studies suggest that blocking GPR68 can attenuate acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in mouse models. 1, 2, 3 Given the risk for ARDS in patients hospitalized with COVID, cancer patients admitted for COVID might be at even greater risk of death from lorazepam.4


## What are the implications of our findings?
Certain benzodiazepines have off-target activation of GPR68, and prior studies suggest that activation of GPR68 signaling exacerbates acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).4 Observed changes in incidence rates over pandemic eras may highlight the critical role of mortality outcomes and disease severity among patients exposed to specific types of benzodiazepines and among cohorts who had history of cancer.
